# News-Article-Classification
Bias is often unavoidable, a fact increasingly obvious in news reporting and journalism. According to a survey conducted by the Pew Research Center in Spring 2019, 50% of Americans say made-up news or information is a very big problem in the United States. This ranks higher than issues like violent crime and climate change. 
However, it is unclear how to mitigate this problem. According to the same survey, 63% of Americans have stopped getting their news from a particular outlet and 43% have lessened their overall news intake. While this may lower the amount of false information consumed, total avoidance of world issues is undesirable. 
A possible solution is to consume media from multiple news sources, with various political affiliations. By reading reporting from different sources, the mutually reported information will likely be closer to fact. However, the task of consuming multiple times the standard amount of media is infeasible for the average person. Instead, the hope is to produce a programmatic procedure to gather news topics, devoid of bias. 
This task can be completed in two parts. First, news articles across various sources need to be categorized by their topics. Next, from these articles of the same topic, the main idea will be extracted, giving a high-level overview of what is going on in the world in regards to that subject. By taking the high-level topic, across multiple sources, bias will ideally be largely removed. With bias mitigated, a concise resource for current events and news can be produced. 
